# SQL_Case_Study-1

Problem Statement:

You are a database administrator. You want to use the data to answer a fewquestions about your customers, especially about the sales and profit comingfrom different states, money spent in marketing and various other factorssuchasCOGS (Cost of Goods Sold), budget profit etc. You plan on using theseinsightsto help find out which items are being sold the most. You have beenprovidedwith the sample of the overall customer data due to privacy issues. But youhopethat these samples are enough for you to write fully functioning SQLqueriestohelp answer the questions.

Dataset:
The 3 key datasets for this case study:

a. FactTable: The Fact Table has 14 columns mentioned belowand4200rows. Date, ProductID, Profit, Sales, Margin, COGS, Total Expenses, Marketing, Inventory, Budget Profit, Budget COGS, Budget Margin, Budget
Sales, and Area Code (Note: COGS stands for Cost of Goods Sold)

b. ProductTable: The ProductTable has four columns named Product Type, Product, ProductID, and Type. It has 13 rows which can be brokendowninto further details to retrieve the information mentioned in theFactTable. 

c. LocationTable: Finally, the LocationTable has 156 rows andfollowsasimilar approach to ProductTable. It has four columns named AreaCode, State, Market, and Market Size.

Tasks to be performed:

1. Display the number of states present in the LocationTable.
   
2. How many products are of regular type?
   
3. How much spending has been done on marketing of product ID 1?
   
4. What is the minimum sales of a product?
   
5. Display the max Cost of Good Sold (COGS).
  
6. Display the details of the product where product type is coffee.
  
7. Display the details where total expenses are greater than 40.

8. What is the average sales in area code 719?

9. Find out the total profit generated by Colorado state.

10. Display the average inventory for each product ID.
  
11. Display state in a sequential order in a Location Table.

12. Display the average budget of the Product where the average budget margin should be greater than 100.
    
13. What is the total sales done on date 2010-01-01?
    
14. Display the average total expense of each product ID on an individual date.
  
15. Display the table with the following attributes such as date, productID, product_type, product, sales, profit, state, area_code.
    
16. Display the rank without any gap to show the sales wise rank.
   
17. Find the state wise profit and sales.
   
18. Find the state wise profit and sales along with the productname.
   
19. If there is an increase in sales of 5%, calculate the increasedsales.
    
20. Find the maximum profit along with the product ID and producttype.
   
21. Create a stored procedure to fetch the result according to the product typefrom Product Table.
   
22. Write a query by creating a condition in which if the total expenses is lessthan60 then it is a profit or else loss.
   
23. Give the total weekly sales value with the date and product IDdetails. Useroll-up to pull the data in hierarchical order.
   
24. Apply union and intersection operator on the tables which consist of attribute area code.

25. Create a user-defined function for the product table to fetch a particular product type based upon the user’s preference.
   
26. Change the product type from coffee to tea where product IDis 1 andundoit.
   
27. Display the date, product ID and sales where total expenses are between 100 to 200.

28. Delete the records in the Product Table for regular type.

29. Display the ASCII value of the fifth character from the columnProduct
